Overall, I'm pretty satisfied with Scala. After using it for a while, it reminds me most of Haskell. While I liked using Haskell in PLs, I've found Scala to be more flexible, usable, and readable in comparison. Some of this is likely due to Haskell only being functional, while Scala can do functional and object-oriented programming. When working on a project, I tend to like that additional flexibility so I can always suit my needs. 

In terms of features, I really like pattern-matching. That was one of my favorite parts of Haskell, so I'm glad to see it here. I'll definitely be using it as much as possible, provided it makes sense to do so. I also really liked the syntactic sugar surrounding loop variables that include or exclude the final number. For an inclusive loop you can use to, while for an exclusive loop you can use until, making 1 to 5 and 1 until 6 equivalent. For me, this was a really elegant and intuitive way to handle this, giving users the choice of which style of loop they want to use.

One thing that was a mixed bag for me in Scala was working with strings. I found string interpolation very useful, but there are some things I would change. Specifically, I would've liked some sort of splicing operator like Python has with the colon. For example, in my Mastermind implementation I needed to strip a particular character from a string at a set index. In Python I could've just done s[:i] + s[i+1:] while with Scala I needed s.take(i) + s.drop(i+1). I think that the Scala designers made this choice because it makes the syntax more readable. However, in my view, the colon from Python is better here because it can serve the dual purposes of take and drop in Scala. In the end, that's one less abstraction to memorize, and those kinds of decisions add up as you get more fluent!

As we move forward in the class and do more things with Scala, I'm curious to play more with different libraries within the language. We've dipped our toes in with user input and random number generation, but I'd like to see what else is in the standard Scala libraries as well as what external community libraries exist. Languages like Python and C++ are definitely bigger than Scala, but I'm curious as to how much the community support differs between them. I also saw something called options on the Scala cheat sheet, which seems to be equivalent to Maybe/Nothing in Haskell. It would be interesting to play around with this as well! 